# Lab 08 - Migrating Repositories from Azure DevOps to GitHub Enterprise Cloud Using GitHub CLI

The objective of this lab is to learn and practice the complete workflow
for migrating an existing Azure DevOps repository to GitHub Enterprise
Cloud (GEC) using the GitHub CLI, while integrating Azure Pipelines for
CI/CD.  
This includes:

- Preparing the Azure DevOps environment.

- Migrating repositories using gh ado2gh.

- Resolving merge conflicts and creating pull requests.

- Verifying builds through Azure Pipelines.

- Adding build badges and history widgets for project visibility.

- Configuring branch protection and cleaning up resources
  post-migration.

## Exercise 1 - Set up your Azure DevOps environment

In this section, you'll ensure that your Microsoft Azure DevOps
organization is set up to complete the rest of this module.

### Task 1 : Fetch the branch from GitHub

1.  Open Visual Studio Code, go to the terminal window.

  ![](./media/image1.png)

2.  Select **Git Bash** .

  ![](./media/image2.png)

3.  Open Terminal and run below command to go the folder

  +++C:\Lab08+++

  +++cd mslearn-tailspin-spacegame-web+++

  ![A screenshot of a computer AI-generated content may be
incorrect.](./media/image3.png)

4.  A *remote* is a Git repository where team members collaborate (like
    a repository on GitHub). Here you list your remotes and add a remote
    that points to Microsoft's copy of the repository so that you can
    get the latest sample code.

5.  Run the following command to list your remotes:

  +++git remote -v+++

  ![A screen shot of a computer AI-generated content may be
incorrect.](./media/image4.png)

6.  Run the following command to create a remote named *upstream* that
    points to the Microsoft repository:

  +++git remote add upstream https://github.com/jamcneil/mslearn-tailspin-spacegame-web.git+++

  +++git remote -v+++

  ![A computer screen shot of a program AI-generated content may be
incorrect.](./media/image5.png)

### Task 2 : Create Repos in ADO

1.  Switch back to DevOps Organization page and click on the existing
    project.

  ![](./media/image6.png)

2.  Hover on **Repos** from left navigation menu and select **Files**.

  ![](./media/image7.png)

3.  Click on the project drop down from top navigation menu and select
    **New repository**.

  ![](./media/image8.png)

4.  Enter the Repository name as    +++Lab08-tailspin-spacegame-web+++*. Unselect “Add a README”
    checkbox and then click on **Create**.

  ![](./media/image9.png)

  ![A screenshot of a computer AI-generated content may be
incorrect.](./media/image10.png)

5.  Copy the HTTPS url to use in next exercise 2

  ![](./media/image11.png)

### Task 3 : Push Repo in Azure DevOps

1.  **Replace** you@example.com **with your GitHub account and Your Name
    to be replaced with your Github account username in the below
    commands and run them.**

  +++git config --global user.email "you@example.com"+++

  +++git config --global user.name "Your Name"+++

  ![A computer screen shot of a program code AI-generated content may be
incorrect.](./media/image12.png)

2.  Run below commands to push the repo.

  +++git init+++

  +++git add .+++

  +++git commit -m "Initial commit for migration lab"+++

  ![](./media/image13.png)

3.  Run below command to sign into Azure. Select Work or school account option and click on Continue. 

  +++az login+++

  ![](./media/image14.png)

4.  Sign in with your cloud slice accounts.

  - Username: +++@lab.CloudPortalCredential(User1).Username+++

  - Temporary Access Pass (TAP) Token: +++@lab.CloudPortalCredential(User1).AccessToken+++

  ![A screenshot of a computer AI-generated content may be
incorrect.](./media/image15.png)

  ![A screenshot of a login screen AI-generated content may be incorrect.](./media/image16.png)

5.  Click on **Yes**,all apps button and then click on **Done**.

  ![A screenshot of a computer AI-generated content may be
incorrect.](./media/image17.png)

  ![A screenshot of a computer AI-generated content may be
incorrect.](./media/image18.png)

6.  Select your subscription and then press enter.

  ![A computer screen with text and numbers AI-generated content may be
incorrect.](./media/image19.png)

7.  **Run below command to push local folder to Azure Devops .(Replace Devops-Repo-Https-url**
    https://dev.azure.com/ADOCourseOrg04/dev-github-proj-53969426/\_git/azure-search-openai-migrated
    **with the https link you copied in previous step -Azure DevOps
    repos**

  +++git remote set-url origin Devops-Repo-Https-url+++

  ![A computer screen with text AI-generated content may be incorrect.](./media/image20.png)

8.  Run below command to fetch all remote branchs. Sign in with your
    cloud slice account when prompts

  +++git fetch –all+++

  ![A screenshot of a computer AI-generated content may be incorrect.](./media/image21.png)

  ![A computer screen with white text AI-generated content may be  incorrect.](./media/image22.png)

9.  Run below code to create local tracking branches for each remote
    branch

    ```
    for branch in $(git branch -r | grep -v '\->'); do
    git branch --track ${branch#origin/} $branch
    done
    ```

  ![A screenshot of a computer program AI-generated content may be
incorrect.](./media/image23.png)

10. Run below command to pull all branches to update them locally

  +++git pull --all+++

  ![A computer screen with white and purple text AI-generated content may
be incorrect.](./media/image24.png)

11. Run below command to push the repo to Devops . if it prompts to sign in ,sign in with your DevOps account.

  +++git push -u origin --all+++

  ![A screenshot of a computer program AI-generated content may be
incorrect.](./media/image25.png)

  **Note : If you already have repo in Devops then follow steps to pull and resolve conflict – 1. Pull from DevOps with unrelated history:** **git pull origin main --allow-unrelated-histories Step 2 : Resolve conflicts in files like .gitignore, README.md. Step 3 : Stage the resolved files - git add . step 4 : git commit -m "Resolved merge conflicts"**

12. **Go back to Azure DevOps project and check Repos-\> Files .You  should see your repo here.**

  ![A screenshot of a computer AI-generated content may be
incorrect.](./media/image26.png)

### Task 4 : Create pipeline to use GEC repo

1.  Click on **Pipelines** from left navigation menu and then select
    Pipeline. Click on **Create Pipeline**.

  ![A screenshot of a computer AI-generated content may be
incorrect.](./media/image27.png)

2.  Select **Azure Repo git** tile

  ![A screenshot of a computer AI-generated content may be
incorrect.](./media/image28.png)

3.  Select the **Lab08-tailspin-spacegame-web** repo.

  ![A screenshot of a computer AI-generated content may be
incorrect.](./media/image29.png)

4.  Select **ASP.NET**

  ![A screenshot of a computer AI-generated content may be
incorrect.](./media/image30.png)

5.  Click on **Run** drop down and select **Save**.

  ![](./media/image31.png)

### Task 5 : Migrate Azure DevOps Repo to GitHub Enterprise Cloud

1.  Switch back to Visual Studio and run below commands to set
    environment varaibles. Make sure to update variables with your
    values and then run them.

  +++export AZURE_DEVOPS_PAT="YOUR_AZDO_PAT"+++

  +++export GH_PAT="ghp_xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx"+++

  +++export ADO_ORG=<https://dev.azure.com/your-ado-org>+++ 
  
  *or simply "your-ado-org" if you prefer*

  +++export GEC_ORG="your-githubEC-org”+++ e.g. devopstogtihub1234

  +++export ADO_PROJECT="**dev-github-proj-XXXXX**"+++ \#ADO project –
replace XXXXX with your project number

  ![A computer screen shot of text AI-generated content may be
incorrect.](./media/image32.png)

2.  Run below commands to verify GitHub login status. If not logged in
    then run 2^(nd) command gh auth login and follow the process to
    loginto GitHub.

  +++gh auth status+++

  +++gh auth login+++

  ![A screenshot of a computer AI-generated content may be
incorrect.](./media/image33.png)

  ![A screenshot of a chat AI-generated content may be
incorrect.](./media/image34.png)

3.  Run below command to install gh extension

  +++gh extension install github/gh-gei+++

  +++gh extension install github/gh-ado2gh+++

  ![A screen shot of a computer AI-generated content may be
incorrect.](./media/image35.png)

4.  Run below command to grant migrator role to your account.(replace
    your-github-username with your username)

  +++gh gei grant-migrator-role --github-org $GEC_ORG --actor <your-github-username> --actor-type USER+++

  ![A screen shot of a computer program AI-generated content may be
incorrect.](./media/image36.png)

    >eg :gh gei grant-migrator-role --github-org devopstogtihub --actor user --actor-type USER

5.  Run below dry-run command to migrate repos to GEC and copy migration id**    (Note: We have used repo -** **tailspin-spacegame-web-deploy . You can check this in your ADO-\>Org-\> Project-\> Repo )**

  +++gh ado2gh migrate-repo --ado-org  $ADO_ORG --ado-team-project $ADO_PROJECT --ado-repo Lab08-tailspin-spacegame-web --github-org $GEC_ORG --github-repo Lab08-tailspin-spacegame-web  --ado-pat $AZURE_DEVOPS_PAT --github-pat $GH_PAT --queue-only+++

  ![A screen shot of a computer program AI-generated content may be
incorrect.](./media/image37.png)

6.  Copy repository migration and update below command with migration id
    and run.

  +++gh ado2gh wait-for-migration --migration-id <MIGRATION_ID> --github-pat $GH_PAT+++

  ![A screenshot of a computer program AI-generated content may be
incorrect.](./media/image38.png)

7.  Switch back to GitHub browser tab, click profile and select **Your
    enterprises**.

  ![A screenshot of a computer AI-generated content may be
incorrect.](./media/image39.png)

8.  Click on your enterprise account.

  ![A screenshot of a computer AI-generated content may be
incorrect.](./media/image40.png)

9.  Click on **Organizations** tab and then select the organization you
    have created.

  ![A screenshot of a computer AI-generated content may be
incorrect.](./media/image41.png)

10.  Click on **Repositories** tab and you should see migrated repo

  ![](./media/image42.png)

11.  Click on copy and copy the url to use in next task

  ![](./media/image43.png)

## Exercise 2 - Create a pull request

In this exercise, you'll practice the process of submitting a pull
request and merging your changes into the main branch so that everyone
can benefit from your work.

In Create a build pipeline with Azure Pipelines, you created a Git
branch named build-pipeline, where you defined a basic build pipeline
for the *Space Game* website. Recall that your build definition is in a
file named ***azure-pipelines.yml***.

Although your branch produces a build artifact, that work exists only on
the build-pipeline branch. You need to merge your branch into
the main branch.

Recall that a *pull request* tells the other developers that you have
code ready to review, if necessary, and you want your changes merged
into another branch, such as the main branch.

### Task 1 : Create a GitHub Enterprise Cloud connection

Here, you create a service connection that enables Azure Pipelines to
access your Azure subscription. Azure Pipelines uses this service
connection to deploy the website to App Service. You created a similar
service connection in the previous labs.

**>Important:** Make sure that you're signed in to both the Azure
portal and Azure DevOps under the same Microsoft account.

1.  In Azure DevOps, go to your **existing**  project.

  ![](./media/image44.png)

2.  From the lower-left corner of the page, select **Project settings**.

  ![](./media/image45.png)

3.  Under **Pipelines**, select **Service connections**. Select **Create
    service connection**.

  ![](./media/image46.png)

4.  Select **GitHub** and then click **Next**.

  ![A screenshot of a computer AI-generated content may be
incorrect.](./media/image47.png)

5.  Select **AzurePipelines** from **OAuth Configuration** drop down and
    then click on **Authorize** button.

  ![A screenshot of a computer AI-generated content may be
incorrect.](./media/image48.png)

6.  Keep the default service name, and then click on **Save** .

  ![](./media/image49.png)

7.  Click on project name from top navigation menu.

  ![](./media/image50.png)

8.  Select the **Pipelines** from the left navigation menu and select
    the pipeline to **Edit**.

  ![](./media/image51.png)

9.  Select **code-workflows** branch and then click next to **Run**
    button and select **Triggers**.

  ![](./media/image52.png)

10. Configure CI settings under **Triggers** tab, **select Override the
    YAML continuous integration trigger from here** checkbox and then
    include **code-workflows** branch

  ![](./media/image53.png)

11. Select **YAML** tab and select **Pipeline** and then make sure
    Default from **Default agent pool for YAML** is set to **“Azure
    Pipeline”**

  ![A screenshot of a computer AI-generated content may be
incorrect.](./media/image54.png)

12. Select **Get sources->GitHub** and then click on **Repository**

  ![](./media/image55.png)

13. Select the repo – **devopstogtihub/lab08-migrate-branch-buildbadge**
    and then click on **Select** button.

  ![](./media/image56.png)

14. Keep all the default values and then click on **Save & queue-\>
    Save**.

  ![](./media/image57.png)

15. Enter some comments and click on Save to save the build pipeline.

  ![A screenshot of a computer AI-generated content may be
incorrect.](./media/image58.png)

### Task 2 : Add starter code to a branch

1.  Switch back to Visual Studio Code, Run below command to switch to
    change origin to GEC origin . replace your-GEC-org\> with yout
    GEC_org and your-GEC-repo with your GEC_repo and then run the
    command

  +++git remote set-url origin https://github.com/<your-GEC-org>/<your-GEC-repo>.git+++
  
  ![A screen shot of a computer AI-generated content may be
incorrect.](./media/image59.png)

2.  Run below command to switch to main

  +++git checkout master+++

  ![A screen shot of a computer AI-generated content may be
incorrect.](./media/image60.png)

3.  Run below command to create a branch named code-workflow:

  +++git checkout -B code-workflow+++

  ![A computer screen shot of a program AI-generated content may be
incorrect.](./media/image61.png)

4.  From the file explorer, open ***azure-pipelines.yml*** and replace
    its contents with this:

  ```
  trigger:
  - '*'
  
  pool:
  vmImage: 'windows-latest'
  
  variables:
  buildConfiguration: 'Release'
  wwwrootDir: 'Tailspin.SpaceGame.Web/wwwroot'
  dotnetSdkVersion: '8.x'
  
  steps:
  - task: UseNode@1
    displayName: 'Use Node.js 18.20.8'
    inputs:
      version: '18.20.8'
  
  - task: UseDotNet@2
    displayName: 'Use .NET SDK $(dotnetSdkVersion)'
    inputs:
      version: '$(dotnetSdkVersion)'
  
  - task: Npm@1
  displayName: 'Run npm install'
  inputs:
    verbose: false
  
  - script: './node_modules/.bin/node-sass $(wwwrootDir) --output $(wwwrootDir)'
  displayName: 'Compile Sass assets'
  
  - script: './node_modules/.bin/gulp'
  displayName: 'Run gulp tasks'
  
  - script: 'echo "$(Build.DefinitionName), $(Build.BuildId), $(Build.BuildNumber)" > buildinfo.txt'
  displayName: 'Write build info'
  workingDirectory: $(wwwrootDir)
  
  - task: DotNetCoreCLI@2
  displayName: 'Restore project dependencies'
  inputs:
    command: 'restore'
    projects: '**/*.csproj'
  
  - task: DotNetCoreCLI@2
  displayName: 'Build the project - $(buildConfiguration)'
  inputs:
    command: 'build'
    arguments: '--no-restore --configuration $(buildConfiguration)'
    projects: '**/*.csproj'
  
  - task: DotNetCoreCLI@2
  displayName: 'Publish the project - $(buildConfiguration)'
  inputs:
    command: 'publish'
    projects: '**/*.csproj'
    publishWebProjects: false
    arguments: '--no-build --configuration $(buildConfiguration) --output $(Build.ArtifactStagingDirectory)/$(buildConfiguration)'
    zipAfterPublish: true
  
  - task: PublishBuildArtifacts@1
  displayName: 'Publish Artifact: drop'
  condition: succeeded()
  ```

  ![A screenshot of a computer program AI-generated content may be
incorrect.](./media/image62.png)

### Task 3 : Push your branch to GitHub

Here, you'll push your code-workflow branch to GEC and watch Azure
Pipelines build the application.

1.  In the terminal, run git status to see what uncommitted work exists
    on your branch. You'll see that azure-pipelines.yml has been
    modified. You'll commit that to your branch shortly, but you first
    need to ensure that Git is tracking this file which is
    called staging the file.

  Only staged changes are committed when you run git commit. Next, you run
the git add command to add *azure-pipelines.yml* to the staging area, or
index.

  +++git status+++

  ![A screen shot of a computer AI-generated content may be
incorrect.](./media/image63.png)

2.  Run below command tp make sure you are on the code-workflow branch

  +++git checkout code-workflow+++

  ![A screenshot of a computer program AI-generated content may be  incorrect.](./media/image64.png)

3.  Run below command to rebase your local changes on top of the remote
    branch

  +++git add azure-pipelines.yml+++

  +++git commit -m "Update pipeline configuration"+++

  +++git pull origin code-workflow –rebase+++

  ![A computer screen shot of a program AI-generated content may be
incorrect.](./media/image65.png)

4.  You see conflict tin your yml file (The part between \<\<\<\<\<\<\<
    HEAD and ======= is your local version.

  The part between ======= and \>\>\>\>\>\>\> is the remote version from GEC.\_)

  ![](./media/image66.png)

5.  Delete the conflict markers (\<\<\<\<\<\<\<, =======,  \>\>\>\>\>\>\>) and make the file match the final desired pipeline
    config. Delete the code as shown in below image and then **save**
    the file

  ![](./media/image67.png)

  ![A screenshot of a computer program AI-generated content may be
incorrect.](./media/image68.png)

6.  Run the following git add command to add azure-pipelines.yml to the
    staging area:

  +++git add azure-pipelines.yml+++

  ![A screen shot of a computer AI-generated content may be
incorrect.](./media/image69.png)

7.  Run the following git commit command to commit your staged file to
    the code-workflow branch:

  +++git commit -m "Add the build configuration"+++

  ![A screenshot of a computer program AI-generated content may be
incorrect.](./media/image70.png)

8.  Run this git push command to push, or upload,
    the code-workflow branch to your repository on GitHub:
    The -m argument specifies the commit message. The commit message
    becomes part of a changed file's history. It helps reviewers
    understand the change, and it helps future maintainers understand
    how the file changed over time. Push with force-with-lease to update
    the remote safely

  +++git push origin code-workflow --force-with-lease+++

  ![A computer screen shot of a program AI-generated content may be
incorrect.](./media/image71.png)

9.  Switch back to Azure DevOps project and select the running pipeline.

  ![](./media/image72.png)

10. Click on the running build.

  Note : if permission require then click on **View** next to the warning message “**This pipeline needs permission to access a resource before this run can continue”c**lick on **Permit -\> Permit** to grant permission to run build.

11. Wait for them to be completed.

  ![A screenshot of a computer AI-generated content may be
incorrect.](./media/image73.png)

### Task 4 : Create a pull request

1.  In a browser, sign in to +++https://www.github.com/+++. Go to your **GEC-> Organization-> lab08-migrate-branch-buildbadge repo**

  ![](./media/image74.png)

  ![A screenshot of a computer AI-generated content may be
incorrect.](./media/image75.png)

2.  On the **code-workflow had recent pushes X minutes ago** yellow
    banner, click on **Compare and pull request** button.

  ![](./media/image76.png)

1.  Enter a title and description for your pull request. This step
    doesn't merge any code. It tells others that you have proposed
    changes to be merged into the main branch.

    - Title: +++Configure Azure Pipelines+++

    - Description: +++This pipeline configuration builds the application and produces a build for the Release
      configuration**.+++

    - To complete your pull request, select **Create pull request**.

    ![](./media/image77.png)

    >Note : Scroll down and if any conflict ,resolve them

5.  Switch back to GEC repo-\> pull request and click on **Merge pull
    request**

    ![](./media/image78.png)

6.  Keep the default comment and click on **Confirm merge.**

  ![](./media/image79.png)

## Exercise 3 - Push a change through the pipeline

In this unit, you'll practice the complete code workflow by pushing a
small change to the *Space Game* website to GEC.

Mara has been given the task of changing some text on the home page of
the website, *Index.cshtml*. In this unit, you'll follow along.

Let's briefly review the steps to follow to complete the task:

- Synchronize your local repository with the latest main branch on GEC.

- Create a branch to hold your changes.

- Make the code changes you need, and verify them locally.

- Push your branch to GEC.

- Merge any recent changes from the main branch on GEC into your local
  working branch, and verify that your changes still work.

- Push up any remaining changes, watch Azure Pipelines build the
  application, and submit your pull request.

### Task 1 : Fetch the latest main branch

In the previous unit, you created a pull request and merged
your code-workflow branch into the main branch on GitHub. Now you need
to pull the changes to main back to your local branch.

The git pull command fetches the latest code from the remote repository
and merges it into your local repository. This way, you know you're
working with the latest code base.

1.  Switch back to Visula studio, In your terminal, run git checkout
    main to switch to the main branch:

  +++git checkout master+++

  ![A screenshot of a computer program AI-generated content may be
incorrect.](./media/image80.png)

2.  To pull down the latest changes, run this git pull command:

  +++git pull origin master+++

  ![A computer screen with text and images AI-generated content may be
incorrect.](./media/image81.png)

3.  Select the code file Tailspin.SpaceGame.Web.csproj and replace **netcoreapp3.1** with **net8.0** in between tag
    \<TargetFramework\>and save the file

  ![](./media/image82.png)

  ![](./media/image83.png)

4.  In Visual Studio Code, go to the terminal window and run the
    following dotnet build command to build the application:

  +++dotnet build --configuration Release+++

  ![A screen shot of a computer program AI-generated content may be
incorrect.](./media/image84.png)

5.  Run the following dotnet run command to run the application:

  +++dotnet run --configuration Release --no-build --project Tailspin.SpaceGame.Web+++

  ![A screenshot of a computer program AI-generated content may be
incorrect.](./media/image85.png)

6.  After your computer trusts your local SSL certificate, run the dotnet run command a second time and go
    to +++http://localhost:5000+++ from a new browser tab to see the
    running application.

  ![A screenshot of a video game AI-generated content may be
incorrect.](./media/image86.png)

### Task 2 : Make changes and test it locally

1.  In Visual Studio terminal, Press Ctrl+C and run the following git
    checkout command:

  +++git checkout -B feature/home-page-text+++

  ![A screenshot of a computer program AI-generated content may be
incorrect.](./media/image87.png)

2.  In Visual Studio Code, open ***Index.cshtml*** in
    the ***Tailspin.SpaceGame.Web/Views/Home*** directory.

  ![](./media/image88.png)

3.  Look for this text near the top of the page:

  <p>An example site for learning<p>

  ![](./media/image89.png)

4. Replace the text in the previous step with the following "mistyped"
    text, and then save the file: Note that the word "oficial" is
    intentionally mistyped. We'll address that error later in this
    module.Save the file
   
  ```
  <p>Welcome to the oficial Space Game site!<p\>
  ```

  ![A screen shot of a computer program AI-generated content may be
incorrect.](./media/image90.png)

5. In your terminal, run the following dotnet build command to build
    the application:

  +++dotnet build --configuration Release+++

  ![A screenshot of a computer program AI-generated content may be
incorrect.](./media/image91.png)

6. Run the following dotnet run command to run the application:

  +++dotnet run --configuration Release --no-build --project Tailspin.SpaceGame.Web+++

  ![A screen shot of a computer program AI-generated content may be
incorrect.](./media/image92.png)

7. On a new browser tab, go to +++http://localhost:5000+++ to see the
    running application.You can see that the home page contains the
    updated text.

  ![A screenshot of a game AI-generated content may be
incorrect.](./media/image93.png)

8. When you're finished, return to the terminal window, and then
    press **Ctrl+C** to stop the running application.

### Task 3 :Commit and push your branch

Here you'll stage your changes to *Index.cshtml*, commit the change to
your branch, and push your branch up to GitHub.

1.  Run git status to check and see whether there are uncommitted
    changes on your branch: You'll see that Index.cshtml has been
    modified. Like before, the next step is to make sure that Git is
    tracking this file, which is called staging the file.

  +++git status+++

  ![A screen shot of a computer program AI-generated content may be
incorrect.](./media/image94.png)

2.  Run the following git add command to stage *Index.cshtml*:

  +++git add Tailspin.SpaceGame.Web/Views/Home/Index.cshtml+++

  ![A computer screen with text and images AI-generated content may be
incorrect.](./media/image95.png)

3.  Run the following git commit command to commit your staged file to
    the feature/home-page-text branch:

  +++git commit -m "Improve the text at the top of the home page"+++

  ![A computer screen shot of a program AI-generated content may be
incorrect.](./media/image96.png)

4.  Run this git push command to push, or upload,
    the feature/home-page-text branch to your repository on GitHub:

  +++git push origin feature/home-page-text+++

  ![A screenshot of a computer program AI-generated content may be
incorrect.](./media/image97.png)

5.  Just as before, you can locate your branch on GitHub from the branch
    drop-down box.

### Task 4 : Watch Azure Pipelines build the application

Just as you did previously, Azure Pipelines automatically queues the
build when you push changes to GitHub.

As an optional step, trace the build as it moves through the pipeline,
and verify that the build succeeds.

**Synchronize any changes to the main branch**

While you were busy working on your feature, changes might have been
made to the remote main branch. Before you create a pull request, it's
common practice to get the latest from the remote main branch.

To do this, first check out, or switch to, the main branch. Then, merge
the remote main branch with your local main branch.

Next, check out your feature branch, and then merge your feature branch
with the main branch.

Let's try the process now.

1.  In your terminal, run this git checkout command to check out
    the main branch:

  +++git checkout master+++

  ![A screen shot of a computer program AI-generated content may be
incorrect.](./media/image98.png)

2.  To download the latest changes to the remote main branch and merge
    those changes into your local main branch, run this git
    pull command:

  +++git pull origin master+++

  ![A screenshot of a computer screen AI-generated content may be
incorrect.](./media/image99.png)

3.  To check out your feature branch, run git checkout:

  +++git checkout feature/home-page-text+++

4.  Merge your feature branch with main:

  +++git merge master+++

  ![A screen shot of a computer program AI-generated content may be
incorrect.](./media/image100.png)

### Task 5 : Push your local branch again

When you incorporate changes from the remote repository into your local
feature branch, you need to push your local branch back to the remote
repository a second time.

Although you didn't incorporate any changes from the remote repository,
let's practice the process to see what happens.

1.  In a browser, sign in to +++https://www.github.com/+++.Go to
    your **GEC- lab08-migrate-branch-buildbadge** repository. On Yellow
    banner” **feature/home-page-text had recent pushes X minute ago”**
    click on **Compare & pull request**

  ![](./media/image101.png)

2.  Enter a title and a description for your pull request

    - **Title**: +++Improve the text at the top of the home page+++
      
    - **Description**: +++Received the latest home page text from the product team.+++

3.  To complete your pull request, select **Create pull request**.This
    step doesn't merge any code. It tells others that you have changes
    that you're proposing to merge.The pull request window is displayed.
    As before, a pull request triggers Azure Pipelines to build your
    application by default.

  ![](./media/image102.png)

4.  Click on **Merge pull request.**

  ![](./media/image103.png)

5.  Keep the default comment and click on **Confirm merge.**

  ![](./media/image104.png)

## Exercise 4 - Add a build badge

It's important for team members to know the build status. An easy way to
quickly determine the build status is to add a build badge to
the *README.md* file on GitHub. Let's check in on the team to see how
it's done.

### Task 1 : Add a build history widget to the dashboard

1.  In Azure DevOps -\>Project, select **Overview**, then
    select **Dashboards**.Select **Add a widget**.

  ![](./media/image105.png)

2.  In the **Add widget** pane, search for +++**Build History+++**.
    Select  **Build History** tile and click on **Add**.

  ![](./media/image106.png)

3.  Select the **Gear** icon to configure the widget.

  Keep the **Build History** title.

  In the **Pipeline** drop-down list, select your pipeline.

  Keep **All branches** selected.

   Select **Save**.

  ![](./media/image107.png)

  ![](./media/image108.png)

4.  Select **Done Editing**.The **Build History** widget is displayed on
    the dashboard.

  ![](./media/image109.png)

5.  Hover over each build to view the build number, when the build was
    completed, and the elapsed build time.Each build succeeded, so the
    bars on the widget are all green. If the build had failed, it would
    appear in red.

  ![A screenshot of a browser window AI-generated content may be  incorrect.](./media/image110.png)

6.  Select one of the bars to drill down into that build.

### Task 2 : Set up approvals

In this section, you'll set up a rule on GitHub that requires at least
one reviewer to approve a pull request before it can be merged into
the main branch. You'll then verify that the rule works by pushing up a
fix to the typing error that Mara made earlier.

1.  In GitHub, go to devopstogtihub/lab08-migrate-branch-buildbadge
    repository.Select the **Settings** tab near the top of the page.

  ![](./media/image111.png)

2.  On the left menu, select **Branches**.Make Select **Add classic
    branch protection rule**.

  ![](./media/image112.png)

3.  Under **Branch name pattern**, enter +++**master+++**.

  - Select the **Require a pull request before merging** check box.

  - Select the **Require approvals** check box.

  - Keep the **Required approving reviews** value at **1**.

    ![](./media/image113.png)

4.  Select **Create**.Sign with your account details if it prompts.

    ![](./media/image114.png)

    ![A screenshot of a computer AI-generated content may be
incorrect.](./media/image115.png)

### Summary :

In this lab, we successfully migrated the repository from Azure DevOps
to GitHub Enterprise Cloud using the **GitHub CLI migration tool**.  
We:

1.  **Set up Azure DevOps environment** – cloned the demo generator
    project, created the target ADO project, and moved initial work
    items to “Doing.”

2.  **Migrated repository** – authenticated with Azure DevOps and GitHub
    using PATs, granted migration permissions, and executed migration
    commands with gh ado2gh.

3.  **Configured Azure Pipelines** – updated the build YAML in a new
    branch, resolved conflicts, pushed to GEC, and verified CI builds in
    Azure DevOps.

4.  **Created and merged pull requests** – collaborated through PRs to
    integrate changes into main, resolving conflicts and ensuring builds
    succeeded.

5.  **Pushed a change through the pipeline** – modified a web page,
    tested locally, committed to a feature branch, pushed to GEC, and
    confirmed a successful pipeline run.

6.  **Added build badge and build history widget** – updated README.md
    with Azure Pipelines badge and configured dashboards for ongoing
    build visibility.

7.  **Applied branch protection rules** – enforced at least one approval
    before merging PRs into masters.

By the end of the lab, the repository was fully operational on GitHub
Enterprise Cloud with CI/CD pipelines intact, build status visibility
enabled, and collaboration rules in place, simulating a real-world
migration and DevOps workflow.





